---
layout: post
title: "One Year of Going For It"
date: 2017-06-27
permalink: /2017/06/27/one-year-later
---

Today marks one year since I walked into General Assembly's fresh new Aldgate
East campus for the first time, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed and ready to throw
all of my money and three months of my time behind one singular goal: Get a
decent job in London.

In as much as there is a typical profile (there probably isn't), I never really
thought I'd be a likely coding bootcamp alum. I've been making websites most of
my life, teaching myself HTML and CSS by snooping code from other sites before I
really knew what "code" even was. Much later on, I took courses covering basic
HTML, CSS, XML, SQL, all for my graduate degree in library & information
science. I knew as much code as I needed to do my job well, and was comfortable
enough with it to poke around and build things (or modify existing things to
suit my tastes) in Wordpress, Joomla, Drupal, and whatever else people were
using.

And yet, jumping from that level of technical ability to actually being a
professional developer seemed impossibly daunting. Somewhere down the road,
perhaps while I was spending my early 20s becoming a terrific but completely
unemployable librarian (inasmuch as nearly any librarian is unemployable these
days, thanks to the economics of supporting social services and libraries in a
capitalist society), the inner workings of the internet just passed me by. I
don't know when exactly building websites became synonymous with knowing a lot
of JavaScript and understanding what, exactly, is meant by that mysterious
phrase "back-end" that I had tossed around so casually—as in, "Oh, if you want
this to be connected to a database, we'll need someone to handle the 'back-end'
bit." I don't know when it happened, but I knew that I was sick of mentally
punting that responsibility to other people. I hated that there was an entire
domain of technology that I was almost entirely ignorant of, and I hated to see
it invading my precious internet and closing me off from playing around and
understanding how things work.

I also hated putting up with sexist bar patrons and trying to fight my way
through the male-dominated craft beer industry, which I had sort of fallen into
after failing to find library work, or copywriting work, or editing work, or any
other sort of gainful employment after relocating to London. So naturally,
becoming a web developer seemed like a solid career move. If I had to put up
with sexist pigs, at least I could get paid a bit more handsomely for it, and go
back to working regular daytime hours.

The lessons I took away from GA are not necessarily the ones I thought I was
paying for. The Web Development Immersive course teaches students how to read
documentation—this is a very important skill for an aspiring developer. It
teaches the basics of how to use Git + GitHub, and makes sure everyone is able
to put together a CV and portfolio showcasing the projects built over the course
of the program. The course assignments start out pretty interesting, as students
learn the basics of programming and thinking logically to build simple games
like tic-tac-toe or roshambo in JavaScript, and the curriculum builds students
up to a level where they're able to create standalone webapps that run locally
using whatever framework is in vogue and being taught by the course—we learned
to build boilerplate applications with Express, with Sinatra, with Rails; we
learned the basics of jQuery syntax and a bit about SASS. I learned that the
instructional team and advisors at General Assembly thought that my Twitter
account was too aggressively feminist and that it would prevent me from finding
jobs. I learned that if the white men who pay for the course think that there's
a pipeline problem in tech that it's not my place to correct them, and that if
there are fewer female developers it's because women just aren't as interested
in computers. I learned that junior developers don't write tests in their jobs;
that task is reserved for senior developers. The point is, I learned a _lot_,
and much of it was good and useful, and some of it was not. As I saw more
examples of the type of developer I didn't want to be, I was able to form a
pretty decent impression of the type of developer I'd like to become.

I've always been comfortable enough hacking away at things to make them work—in
my view, that's not the mark of a professional. If I'm to make this my vocation,
I want to do it _well_, like, _really well_. I want to be able to write software
that other developers can look at and say, "Yes, this makes sense." I want to
write code that's maintainable, performative, self-documenting, well-tested,
that does what it's meant to do. I also want to really, deeply understand the
tools I use, which is a process I understand will take _rather a lot_ of time. 

It's hard not to despair at times, feeling like I'm at least a decade behind the
curve and missing so much foundational knowledge. It's even harder to measure my
progress—how can I quantify knowledge gained, or deeper understanding slowly
percolating in my mind? I can't throw together a Rails application any faster
now than I could when I built one for one of my GA projects, but my process for
doing so is completely different now (and it includes a hell of a lot more test
writing). 

My favourite part of being a professional developer so far is, surprisingly,
something that's a bit of a divisive topic: Code review. After years of hacking
away at things and making them work, it's so refreshing to have the confidence
to share my code with a mentor and get feedback (even when the feedback is
basically, "Tear it all down and start over, but here's where to start and what
to think about). I've been really fortunate to work alongside great developers
who give thoughtful, considered feedback and are exactly as pedantic as I'd like
them to be. I've gotten great feedback about design decisions, architectural
patterns, structuring database queries, and how to optimise for performance, and
I've learned that naming things probably isn't as hard as everyone thinks it
is—at least, if you've got a decade of writing and editing experience under your
belt.

I'm extremely grateful for everyone who took a chance on me and helped me get
this far over the past year—pretty sure you know who you are already, and naming
names feels a bit gauche. I plan to repay that debt by putting in the effort to
grow into contributing member of the community, continually fighting against
discrimination and cultural hegemony, helping to encourage aspiring developers
to boldly pursue their dreams, and calling out bullshit and bad takes whenever I
see them. In short, I'll continue to just be myself, but I'll probably get
further and bring more people along with me thanks to your help and support.

xx,
Kaitlyn

