---
layout: post
title: "2025 in review"
date: 2026-01-01
permalink: /2025-in-review/
---

For most of the decades I was childless, I read an average of a book a week. I use 
[LibraryThing](https://www.librarything.com/) to [catalog my reading](https://www.librarything.com/catalog/krtierney). 

Since 2022 I have fallen far, far short of that cadence—and, rather uncoincidentally, haven't updated this blog either. In 2022, I read 8 books in total. The longest of these was _JR_ by William Gaddis, a book I have started and failed to finish many times over the years. In 2023, I doubled this count and read 16 books. All quite short, easy reads, but I was starting to get my groove back, so to speak. The last book I read in 2023 was finished at the start of October, just before I started work at Intercom. I read nothing in the ensuing 6 months, instead working myself to the brink of burnout and beyonod the point of exhaustion. In 2024, I changed jobs again and read 12 books in the year. An average of a book a month, but my reading was front-loaded and primarily happened in the second quarter of the year, before I became once again immersed in work. The longest of these was _Salt_, a nonfiction book by Mark Kurlansky of 496 pages about the history of well, salt. It was, shall we say, a bit dry? I'm not a big nonfiction reader. If it's not work-related, I struggle to get through it and often will not finish.

So in comparison, 2025 has been a blissful respite. No job changes, no major life milestones to navigate. It's been a quiet year, despite changing teams twice at work and pushing through some quite chunky technical projects, and parenting a high-energy toddler. I read 16 books, but two of those were 3-in-1 trilogies (the _Sweetpea_ series, and Ursula K LeGuin's _Three Hainish Novels_), so in a certain light, if you squint a bit, we can call it an even 20. Well, 21 once you factor in the [O'Reilly-published book](https://uk.bookshop.org/p/books/leveling-up-as-a-tech-lead-growing-as-a-technical-project-and-people-leader-anemari-fiser/7900505) I acted as a tech reviewer for! Although if you count re-reads and kids' books, my Read Count for the year is probably multiplied by a factor of 10, at least. But that somehow feels like another post, with an entirely different audience, and I don't know how I'd even begin to count them. The longest book I read this year was Robert A Caro's masterpiece work on Robert Moses, _The Power Broker_, at 1344 pages. I finished it in August and promptly took a three month break from reading anything at all.

I continued to draw lots of reading-related inspiration from Mandy Brown's blog [A Working Library](https://aworkinglibrary.com). This year, a lot of my reading was also inspired by [Remy Sharp](https://remysharp.com/2026/01/01/books-i-read-in-2025) (thanks, Remy!). I am, as ever, always on the lookout for recommendations that can help me get back into the swing of things. Although 2026 will be another very slow year for books for me, I expect, as we're expecting our second child midway through the year!